---
layout: post
title: "Projects"
categories: projects
tags: [documentation,sample]
image: header_hopper.png
---
## TrEnCh (Translating Environmental Change) Project
We build computational and visualization tools to translate environmental change into organismal responses. Details on the [TrEnCh project website](https://www.trenchproject.com/).

A key challenge in raising public awareness of climate change is conveying the ecological and human impacts of a given (e.g., 3°C) temperature increase. Biophysical models compute heat budgets for organisms and enable translating environmental conditions into potential body temperatures.  They can thus predict how warming alters thermal stress and performance.  They can be integrated with demographic models to scale up to the population, community, and ecosystem impacts of climate change.  Organisms interact with their environment at small spatial and short temporal scales, requiring downscaling of most available data describing current and projected future environments.  The high temporal and spatial resolution data will enable quantifying organismal responses to both environmental means and variability.  We are developing tools for visualizing the ecological impacts of climate change that will be disseminated through education and outreach programs.

## CORP (Colorado Resurvey of Pierids) Project
We (with Joel Kingsolver, UNC) are using historic data on species’ traits from museum specimens (0-100ya) and performance from lab and field studies (30-50ya) to assess phenotypic shifts for Rocky Mountain Colias butterflies and their influence on responses to recent climate changes. Overall, we are finding that environmental variability limits evolutionary responses.

## WARP (Washington Resurvey of Pierids) Project

## Gordon Alexander Resurvey Project
We (with Kingsolver and Cesar Nufio, NSF and CU Boulder) are examining shifts in traits, phenology, abundance, and performance of grasshoppers along a Rocky Mountain elevation gradient (since initial surveys and specimen collection from 1930-1960) in response to recent climate change. 

RoL

